As mentioned there are some major advantages to using digital signatures rather than appreciate keys.
There is however one major stumbling block when PDA sends these public key to Sarah Jo hacker could
intercept that public key and replace it with his own public key and send that on to Sarah pretending
to be Peter.
That means that Sarah believes that traffic coming from Joe hacker is actually Peter.
In this case she needs a mechanism to prove that Peter is who he says he is and that he hasn't been
replaced with someone else and that allows us to introduce the concept of a Certificate of Authority.
Now in brief the easiest way to understand this is to think of the Certificate of Authority as a trusted
third party.
When you connect to a website like Amazon dot com you trust that website because of a trusted third
party like VeriSign or thought essentially a Certificate of Authority is introducing Peter to Sarah
and allowing them to receive each other's public keys knowing that that public key actually belongs
to that person.
What happens in brief is Peter will send his public key to the Certificate of Authority and the Certificate
of Authority will issue Peter with a certificate stating that the public key contained in the certificate
is actually Peter's public key.
The Certificate of Authority does that by taking some of Peter's information is public key hashing that
data and then signing it with the certificate of authorities private key putting that into a certificate
and issuing that certificate to Peter the Certificate of Authority will do the same with Sarah taking
Sarah's data taking her public key hashing that information and signing it with the certificate of authorities
private key this whole infrastructure known as the public key infrastructure or P.K. I relies on businesses
trusting the certificates issued by the Certificate of Authority before setting up a VPN Pete and Sarah
will exchange the tickets.
So Peter will send his certificate to Sarah.
Sarah trusts the information contained in the certificate from Peter because the certificate has been
signed by a trusted third party let's say in this case.
Very sign and she trusts VeriSign so because Sarah trusts very sign and various sign trusts Peter Sarah
now trusts Peter by the same token Sarah sends his certificate to Peter.
Peter trusts Sarah because he trusts very sign and very sign trusts.
Sarah better sign or whichever Certificate of Authority you use is the trusted third party allowing
for the secure exchange of public keys.
Now what is IP sic IP sic or IP security is a network layer protocol.
In actual fact it's a suite of protocols that protects and authenticate IP packets.
It's a framework of open standards that is algorithm independent and thus can use multiple algorithms.
They are three main IP sic protocols.
The first one is Internet key exchange or IHC which provides a framework for negotiating security parameters
and establishing authenticated keys.
A lot of the information I've just covered about appreciate keys and digital signatures relies on Ike.
We also have authentication head or or a h which does not provide encryption but provides authentication
and integrity.
And then thirdly we have what's called encapsulating security payload or ECP which provides for encryption
authentication and integrity there are two modes that can be used an IP SEC VPN.
The first one is transport mode where the original IP head of the packet being encrypted is used to
transport the packet and the second one is tunnel mode where the original IP packet being encrypted
is not used to transport the packet a new IP header is tagged on the front.
So you have double IP addresses the head is used for writing the packets of the IP addresses of the
peer devices involved in the VPN not the originating host and destination host.
So he has an example of a site to site VPN and we are going to used ISP with tunnel mode which is very
common.
Please note we have a MacBook with an IP address of 10 one on one and a server with an IP address of
10 1 to 1.
But we also have two routers router one with IP address quadruple one and router 2 with IP address quadruple
2 and the IP sic VPN is going to be setup between router 1 and route at 2.
So if we look at the IP headers when the MacBook sends traffic to the server the source address will
be 10 1 1 1 and the destination address will be 10 1 to 1 on the local LAN that traffic will then be
routed to a 1 when that traffic is sent through the IP sic tunnel.
Notice all the information so the data and the original IP headers.
In other words source address 10 1 1 1 and destination 10 1 2 1 are encrypted and non readable on the
Internet and ISP header is tagged onto the front as well as a new source IP address and destination
IP address.
So if Joe hacker was sniffing packets on the Internet he would see traffic from router 1 going to write
it to he would not see who was actually involved in the conversation when Rod it too receives those
encrypted packets without it too will strip off the outside headers decrypt the packets as per what
we've discussed previously and then send the original packets on towards the server.
So the source IP address will be 10 one on one destination will be 10 1 to 1 if sniffed on this local
land.
So this once again is an example of a site to site IP SEC VPN using ISP in tunnel mode.
E P if you remember provides encryption so confidentiality data integrity and authentication notice
also that we're using tunnel mode because we have inserted new IP headers now in using IP sic.
You have various options to choose from.
The first thing to choose is which IP SEC protocol are you going to use.
Are you going to use ISP or are you going to use a h.
Or are you going to use them together.
Now firstly is provides encryption but H doesn't.
So if you need confidentiality don't use a h or authentication headed by itself.
Use ISP however ISP combined with a h provides for stronger authentication and encryption and therefore
for example in banking environments they may choose to use both ESPN HD together.
The next thing to choose which I haven't got on the slide is which mode are you gonna use.
Are you gonna use tunnel mode or are you going to use transport mode please remember if the devices
setting up the VPN are not the actual devices communicating you need to use tunnel mode.
So in this example because the routers are not the source and destination of the actual traffic they
are configured in tunnel mode.
You need to choose an encryption algorithm.
So are you going to use days or couple days or is it recommended today to use a s what authentication
and integrity are you going to use.
Is it empty five or Sha.
Also you're going to use preset keys or you going to use digital signatures and therefore digital certificates
digital certificates are harder to implement but are most scalable.
So for a very small VPN you might use appreciate keys for authentication but in a large environment
you may decide to use digital certificates which version of Helmand are you going to use Duffy Hellman
one or two and to the film and five now I'm hoping at this point that you have a good understanding
of the various protocols and that's why I spend a lot of time discussing the various protocols because
if we don't cover the groundwork this slide will mean nothing.
So what types of VPN can you expect to encounter.
The first type is site to site where you for instance have a remote office or home office with a local
router connecting back to the head office which may be using a router or an HSA or another type of device.
The IP sic VPN tunnel is setup directly between router 1 and routed to the advantage of this is firstly
that the devices like the MacBook and server do not need to run any encryption software from their point
of view.
It's as if there is a leased line or direct connection between the two lands.
Another advantage of using IP sick is because it runs at the network like they always model.
It can encrypt all highlighted protocols.
So rather than just being able to encrypt for instance HDP it can encrypt Oracle traffic sequel traffic
HDP traffic FCP traffic and so forth and so on.
The second type of VPN you'll probably encounter is a remote access.
My basic VPN in this case a remote client like a Windows laptop has installed the Cisco VPN client and
a VPN is being configured and setup between the laptop and HQ rather directly.
The advantage of this method is that the user could be roaming.
So in other words the user could be in a hotel and can connect securely across a public wireless network
in the hotel to the head office.
The user could also be in an Internet cafe or Starbucks or some way connecting to a wireless network
that because they are running the VPN Klein soft way their traffic is encrypted and authenticated and
so forth directly from the laptop to the central site.
Is an example of the Cisco VPN client software running on my laptop.
All I would need to do to connect back to the office for instance would be to double click on the VPN
entry put in my authentication information like my username and password and I'll be able to connect
back to the corporate environment the disadvantage of this method is that you have to install the Cisco
VPN client so it's not client lists.
You have to install a piece of software the next top of remote access VPN is an SSL Secure Sockets Layer
VPN these days there are two variants of this you firstly got the client list SSL tunnel where you could
be in an Internet cafe or somewhere and you can connect securely to the HQ Rada without installing any
software on your P.C. or client.
There were some restrictions originally with which applications and protocols could be used.
These days Cisco have something called the any connect client which allows you to connect via SSL but
download a Java applet that allows more applications to be used through the SSL tunnel.
No software has to be installed locally.
Any connect client can automatically be downloaded and installed when connecting to the central site.
So for this course just be a way.
The advantage of an SSL VPN is that you do not need to install any software now which devices support
VPN.
Cisco routers do Cisco firewalls like the Cisco NSA do.
They are various clients that can be used the first one of the 30 compliant which can be used on wireless
PDA and other devices.
We have a legacy device called a VPN 3A to hardware client which is a physical device that will be installed
at a remote site that would allow for easy VPN connections back to a central site.
And then as I've shown you you have the Cisco VPN software client these days you also have the any connect
client that can be downloaded automatically when connecting by an SSL VPN.
So to sum up what are the benefits of using VPN a major driver for VPN is cost savings because VPN is
all compatible with broadband technologies like DSL and cable.
Rather than having to install expensive leased lines or other private networks a virtual private network
can be established across a public infrastructure like the Internet VPN to provide security in that
they provide encryption authentication data integrity non repudiation anti replay protection and so
forth and DP ends of very scalable VPN can scale to many many countries and I've been involved in VPN
that spanned 50 countries.
Now it's easy and a level you're not expected to know how to configure and setup IP safety pins but
I'm going to demonstrate the setup of an IP safe VPN by using the VPN config generator which you may
have got depending which package you purchased so let's look at setting up a site to site VPN between
Rado 1 and Robert it too with networks 10 1 1 0 and 10 1 2 0.
As private networks that need to be encrypted so I'll launch the site to site VPN wizard in our example
both sides of the IP sic tunnel or routers so we'll click next.
In this case we are requiring IP sic encryption so we're going to go for an encrypted tunnel.
We're not running dynamic routing protocols or multi costing etc..
I'll take next day in our example let's just assume that we're using static IP addresses on both sides
and not dynamic IP addresses so we'll click next so this is sort of what our diagram looks like.
We're going to encrypt traffic from 10 1 1 0 going to 10 1 2 0 and our 2 routers IP addresses all quadruple
1 and quadruple ti when setting up IP sic.
You've got to specify your Ike well I say KMP options.
So for example let's be really secure and go for a s turn 56.
In this example we only gonna use appreciate keys.
I'm just going to leave it at Cisco 1 2 THREE AND THEN I'M GOING TO CLICK ON THE generate button and
this is what that configuration would look like.
You have to create an access list specifying which networks are going to be encrypted.
This is known as an interesting traffic access list so traffic from 10 1 1 0 going to 10 1 2 0 would
be encrypted because we're looking at router ones sort of the configuration.
Now notice here we are using empty five hashing we could change that to show we're using a 256 encryption.
We're using Duffy Hellman group to we're using pre shared authentication notice when talking to write
a T.
We're using a positive Cisco 1 23 from an IP SEC point of view we're using e p a s.
So encapsulating security payload using a s with MDG 5 and we're using tunnel mode we are specifying
who our peer is for IP sic we are binding the access list so the rider knows which network should be
encrypted and so forth.
I hope that gives you an idea of how to configure an IP sic VPN.
Once again for CCMA it's not expected that you know this configuration but I've just put it in for completeness
en route it to.
We would just have a mirror image of that configuration.
So notice the same password but going to IP address quadruple one so whatever we covered we looked at
an overview of the ends I explained various VPN components.
We discussed IP sic discuss a lot of options including encryption authentication and integrity.
Please remember at this course level you're not expected to know commands but you expected to have an
appreciation and an understanding of the various IP sic VPN technologies.
Thank you for watching.